Hi, I'm Sarah Altman, a Data Science Educator at Posit.
In this video, I'll show you how to create your first Python
project in Positron.
I'll walk through the process of opening a folder,
setting up a virtual environment,
creating a Quarto document, versioning with Git,
and deploying Deposit Connect.
First, make sure you've downloaded Positron
and have a supported Python interpreter installed.
Let's create our project.
The first step is to open a folder.
This will create a workspace for our project.
I'll choose New Folder and then Python Project,
and then pick a name for the folder.
I'm going to call it First Python Project
and select a location by clicking Browse.
And then I'm going to check Initialize Git Repository
to set up version control for the project.
If you don't plan on using Git, you can skip this step.
Next, I'm going to set up the virtual environment.
Make sure Create a New Virtual Environment is selected
and then select a way to create the virtual environment.
You can either use Venv, UV, or Conda
if you have UV and Conda installed.
I'm going to use Venv.
Then finally, select a Python interpreter.
This is the version of Python that you
want to use in your project.
And click Create.
Now, Positron has opened our new folder.
You can see the files that it created over here
in the File Explorer on the left-hand side.
Positron also created and activated
that virtual environment.
This means that much of the setup for our Python project
is already done.
Now that the virtual environment is active,
we can install the libraries that we'll need for our project.
We're going to open the terminal,
and then we're going to install the Python library.
and then install Jupyter, Pandas, and Matplotlib.
We'll need Jupyter to render Cordo documents.
Next, I'll capture the environment
in a requirements.txt file so it's reproducible.
Positron can recognize requirements.txt files
in a project and can prompt the user to install libraries
from the file, which makes it easy for others
to recreate the same environment.
Now that our environment is ready,
we can start adding files and running Python code.
I'm going to do my work in a Cordo document.
I'll first pull up the Command Palette with Command-Shift-P.
You can access all of Positron's files
You can access all of Positron's commands
from the Command Palette.
And then I'm going to search for Cordo new document.
Now I have a new blank Cordo document.
So let's load some data and take a look at it.
First, I'll insert a new Python cell into the Cordo doc.
And now I'm going to read in some weekly US gasoline prices
data from Tidy Tuesday.
This code imports some libraries and then
reads the data in from a URL.
After running this code, notice that df and the other variables
we created show up in the Variables pane
over on the right-hand side.
I can click this spreadsheet icon next to df
to launch the Data Explorer, a spreadsheet-style view where
you can sort, filter, and view summary statistics
for your data, all without writing any additional code.
Now let's visualize the data.
So let's run that code.
Now you'll notice that the plot shows up over in the Plots
pane on the right.
So this is a pretty short analysis,
but it's a good starting point.
And now we can render our Cordo document
to see what it looks like.
First, I'm going to give it a title and save the file.
And now I can click Preview to render.
The rendered result opens in the Viewer pane on the right.
Next, I'm going to commit and push my changes to GitHub.
This is the source control view where
you can stage changes, commit, and push changes to GitHub.
Click the plus next to a file to stage the changes.
I'm going to add the Cordo document, the gitignore file,
readme, and the requirements file for now.
Then I'm going to add a commit message to this message text
box and click Commit.
Next, I'm going to click this little cloud icon
to publish the branch.
This is going to create a corresponding remote
repository on GitHub and then push the changes.
So let's make a public repo.
Just need to name it something else.
And now Positron will create that repository
and push my changes.
So let's open it on GitHub.
OK, here it is.
The final step is to set up a deployment deposit connect
so I can share my report with others.
If you have access to PositConnect,
you can use Posit Publisher from Positron
to deploy your work to Connect.
If you don't have access to PositConnect,
PositConnect Cloud provides an easy way
to publish quarter reports, shiny apps, and more
from GitHub for free.
So this is the Posit Publisher view.
And I'm going to use this to create a new deployment.
I click here.
And then I want to deploy this gathprices.qnd file, add a name,
and then select where I want to deploy it to.
And then I just need to click this Deploy Your Project
button, and Positron will deploy my content.
OK, here's the file deployed to PositConnect.
If you've been following along, you now
have a basic working Python project set up in Positron,
the virtual environment, version control,
and it's deployment ready to go.
To learn more, take a look at the corresponding blog post
and the links in the description.
And that's it for this video.
If you have any questions, please feel free to reach out
to me on Twitter, Instagram, or LinkedIn.
And I'll see you in the next video.
Bye.